{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ====================================================================\
ASSIGNMENT 15: Switch Case\
====================================================================\
\
QUESTION:\
Switch Case\
\
(a) Write a program that has name and gender as the variables\
\
(b) Use a switch case statement that prints: "Hello Mr..." for males and "Hello Ms..." for females\
\
ANSWER\
Java Program:\
\
// This program demonstrates how to use the switch-case statement in Java\
// It declares two variables: name (String) and gender (char)\
// Based on the gender value, it prints a greeting using switch-case\
\
public class SwitchCaseGreeting \{\
    public static void main(String[] args) \{\
        // Step (a): Declare and initialize the name and gender variables\
        String name = "Sneha";\
        char gender = 'F';  // 'M' for male, 'F' for female\
\
        // Step (b): Apply switch-case to handle greetings based on gender\
        switch (gender) \{\
            case 'M':\
            case 'm':\
                System.out.println("Hello Mr. " + name);\
                break;\
            case 'F':\
            case 'f':\
                System.out.println("Hello Ms. " + name);\
                break;\
            default:\
                System.out.println("Invalid gender entered. Please use 'M' or 'F'.");\
                break;\
        \}\
    \}\
\}\
\
\
Explanation:\
\
1. Variable Declaration:\
\
name is a String variable that stores the name of the person.\
\
gender is a char variable that should hold either 'M' (for male) or 'F' (for female).\
\
\
2. Switch-case:\
\
We use a switch block on the gender variable to check for two cases:\
\
'M' or 'm': prints "Hello Mr. ..."\
\
'F' or 'f': prints "Hello Ms. ..."\
\
\
The default case handles invalid input like other characters.\
\
\
3. Why Switch-case?\
\
Switch-case improves readability and efficiency over long if-else if chains when dealing with known constant values like gender.\
\
\
Sample Outputs:\
\
Example 1:\
\
String name = "Sneha";\
char gender = 'F';\
\
Output:\
\
Hello Ms. Sneha\
\
Example 2:\
\
String name = "Rahul";\
char gender = 'M';\
\
Output:\
\
Hello Mr. Rahul\
\
Example 3:\
\
String name = "Aryan";\
char gender = 'X';\
\
Output:\
\
Invalid gender entered. Please use 'M' or 'F'.\
\
STUDENT DETAILS:\
Name     : Gaurav Kumar\
Email    : gk3759307@gmail.com\
Course   : Java \'96 Spoken Tutorial, IIT Bombay\
College  : Government Polytechnic Gaya }