{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ====================================================================\
ASSIGNMENT 40: Static Blocks\
====================================================================\
\
QUESTION:\
Static Blocks\
\
(a) Design a class CarService to represent a Car Service Station\
\
(b) This class should contain variables to represent the following:\
    - Name of the Service Station\
    - Car make, model, regno and status\
    - No. of Cars in for Service\
    - No. of Cars out after Service\
\
(c) Identify the instance variables and static variables\
\
(d) Define a constructor to initialize the values for instance variables\
\
(e) Define a static block to initialize the values of static variables\
\
(f) Also create a Demo class containing the main method\
    - Create a few objects of CarService\
    - Invoke the show() method using all the objects and verify the results\
\
ANSWER\
public class CarService \{\
    // Static variables\
    static String serviceStationName;\
    static int noOfCarsInService;\
    static int noOfCarsOutAfterService;\
\
    // Instance variables\
    String make;\
    String model;\
    String regno;\
    String status;\
\
    // Static block to initialize static variables\
    static \{\
        serviceStationName = "Super Care Service Station";\
        noOfCarsInService = 0;\
        noOfCarsOutAfterService = 0;\
        System.out.println("Static block executed: Static variables initialized.");\
    \}\
\
    // Constructor to initialize instance variables\
    public CarService(String make, String model, String regno, String status) \{\
        this.make = make;\
        this.model = model;\
        this.regno = regno;\
        this.status = status;\
\
        // Update counts based on status\
        if (status.equals("in")) \{\
            noOfCarsInService++;\
        \} else if (status.equals("out")) \{\
            noOfCarsOutAfterService++;\
        \}\
    \}\
\
    // Instance method to show all details\
    public void show() \{\
        System.out.println("Service Station: " + serviceStationName);\
        System.out.println("Car Make: " + make);\
        System.out.println("Car Model: " + model);\
        System.out.println("Car RegNo: " + regno);\
        System.out.println("Status: " + status);\
        System.out.println("No. of Cars in Service: " + noOfCarsInService);\
        System.out.println("No. of Cars out After Service: " + noOfCarsOutAfterService);\
        System.out.println("-----------------------------");\
    \}\
\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Demo claspublic class Demo \{\
    public static void main(String[] args) \{\
        // Create car objects with different statuses\
        CarService car1 = new CarService("Toyota", "Camry", "KA01AB1234", "in");\
        CarService car2 = new CarService("Honda", "Civic", "KA02CD5678", "out");\
        CarService car3 = new CarService("Hyundai", "Creta", "KA03EF9012", "in");\
\
        // Show details of each car\
        car1.show();\
        car2.show();\
        car3.show();\
    \}\
\}\
\
Expected Output\
Static block executed: Static variables initialized.\
Service Station: Super Care Service Station\
Car Make: Toyota\
Car Model: Camry\
Car RegNo: KA01AB1234\
Status: in\
No. of Cars in Service: 2\
No. of Cars out After Service: 1\
-----------------------------\
Service Station: Super Care Service Station\
Car Make: Honda\
Car Model: Civic\
Car RegNo: KA02CD5678\
Status: out\
No. of Cars in Service: 2\
No. of Cars out After Service: 1\
-----------------------------\
Service Station: Super Care Service Station\
Car Make: Hyundai\
Car Model: Creta\
Car RegNo: KA03EF9012\
Status: in\
No. of Cars in Service: 2\
No. of Cars out After Service: 1\
-----------------------------\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 STUDENT DETAILS:\
Name     : Gaurav Kumar\
Email    : gk3759307@gmail.com\
Course   : Java \'96 Spoken Tutorial, IIT Bombay\
College  : Government Polytechnic Gaya \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
}